---
layout: post
title: Some Really Eventful Months
---

The last few months of my life have been, for the lack of words, fast-paced and busy as fuck.

I'm currently sitting in a bed in my aunt's house with sleep nowhere to be found. This small moment
of peace has been something I've not had in as long as I can remember. I'm gonna
get on a flight to Barcelona tomorrow to meet some amazing MetaBrainz Foundation people for
the [MetaBrainz summit](https://wiki.musicbrainz.org/MusicBrainz_Summit/17) and this moment will
go away again. So I've decided to document stuff that's happened in my life since Summer of Code
started. Maybe I'll read this and look back at this time of my college career (reminiscing or some shit).

So I worked with great people in the MetaBrainz Foundation on ListenBrainz, my first "real" project.
The ListenBrainz beta was released this July, I was pretty overwhelmed when I saw code that I had
written being used by [over 800 users](https://listenbrainz.org/current-status). But Summer of Code
ended soon after and I had to acclimate back to college life, where nothing of note ever happens unless
you do something yourself.

I kept contributing to ListenBrainz as time went on, adding an API so that submissions
from Spotify to Last.FM could be redirected to LB and we'd understand those submissions. Also, I kept
fixing minor bugs as they popped along. I got an offer to join the MetaBrainz Foundation as a part-time
developer working on ListenBrainz and the MetaBrainz website (https://metabrainz.org). This was a nice
opportunity that I welcomed because college can get boring really rapidly and solving real problems is
a nice experience. Also, I'd always had an aim I was working towards during the majority of college (ACM-ICPC
in second year and the first half of third year and then GSoC in the second half of third year). MeB
would provide me with stuff to keep me productive and not go down the dark drain of doing nothing for
an year.

I ran around to Chandigarh in the meanwhile, applying to acquire a visa so that I could actually
attend the summit. This was a really taxing task, with tons and tons of paperwork. However, in
Chandigarh, I met [Pranav Kant](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pranvk/) and
[Sagar Karira](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sagar-karira-0b354162/) for dinner, awesome people who
made the trip a bit less tiring.

Meanwhile, I came across [CodeAgon](https://www.hackerrank.com/codeagon), a contest organized by
CodeNation, used by them for hiring interns and full-time engineers. To me, CodeNation always seemed
like this unassailable target, people like [Pranet Verma](http://spoj.com/users/pranet) and
[Lalit Kundu](http://codeforces.com/profile/darkshadows) work (or have worked) there. If a company has
options like these in their hiring processes, my chances seem slim at best and non-existent at worst.
I hadn't even taken part in a programming contest seriously since ACM-ICPC last year!

But anyways I decided to give it a try and got a rank of 137 in the contest, which was good
enough to be called for interviews. I got an e-mail asking if I was okay with giving an interview
on the day mid-semester exams had started. I replied back asking for the interview to take place on
the Tuesday after the week that midsems ended, because Sunday was Software Freedom Day celebrations (which
I had taken a major part in organizing) and then I had to go to Chandigarh again to collect my passport
on Monday.

I spent the midsemesters flip-flopping between interview prep (a bunch of leetcode grinding and GeeksForGeeks
and CTCI reading), studying for midsemesters and working on ListenBrainz. Because I was juggling around three
different things, I think I didn't do any of them really well. But the midsemester week got really
stressful because of this. But it ended somehow and I spent the next day running around trying to make
Software Freedom Day the best experience for everyone. The next day, I spent 12 hours traveling to and fro
from Chandigarh to collect my passport. (they granted me the visa!).

I was kinda tired the next day, but there was a CodeNation interview to give and I was really pessimistic.
I'd actually written a draft turning down the interview at one point. But I decided to go on and just
give it. The interview was pretty laid back, to be honest, just some cool discussion on the
stuff I'd worked on so far. There was a lot of talk about LB, the tech decisions we'd made and
the challenges I'd faced in GSoC. I got to the second round, but I also had a presentation to give the next
day on my major project.

This meant juggling around interview prep and my major team. At this point, I was pretty fed up and
tired. It felt like I'd been working 80 hour weeks for the last three weeks and when the major project
presentation ended, I decided to just sleep
and not worry about the interview. I woke up 5 minutes before the interview. This round was the one in
which I was gonna have to write actual code, so I wasn't sure how well it would go, tbh. It was pretty
stressful for me, trying to grope around for solutions to two problems (one easy and one kinda hard)
while trying to make sure the interviewer was on the same page as me and he knew my thought process.
I got to the solution of the first problem somehow, but it took me much longer than it normally would
(mostly because I wasn't even sitting with a notebook and pen). I wrote the code pretty fast though.
The second problem was harder and I got to the optimal solution after getting a LOT of hints. There
was no time to actually code it up though.

When the interview ended, I thought I had messed it up beyond repair and there was no way I'd move
forward to the next round. (it was kinda bittersweet because if I didn't, at least my busy weeks would
come to an end.) But then a mail came, telling me that I'd made it and the next (final) round would take
place the next day. I didn't study much for this round, reading last minute notes for Operating Systems
and DBMS (just in case).

The last round was pretty cool, a system design round, where I was asked to design a service like
Spotify and Google Play Music. I decided what features I wanted to add and how I'd add them. We focussed
on a Shazam like audio fingerprinting feature for the major part of the interview. This was kinda hard for
me because I have literally no machine learning experience, so I kept talking about my own weird ways
of matching recorded data with actual real data to find the correct track being played. The most fun part
of the interview was the last 10 minutes when I was asked to brainstorm as many features we could add to
this service as possible. I spewed out so many features in this small time, I kinda surprised myself.

The next day, I got an offer! Now, stuff has returned to normal, I guess. I'm not that busy anymore (for now).

I plan on making the summit a nice cooldown affair to get back to normal life. Hopefully, the long
weeks are now over.
