---
layout: post
title: Random online diary update #1
---

It's been a long time since I updated the blog. When I wrote the last post,
I was in my mausi's house waiting to go to Barcelona for the MetaBrainz summit,
happy with getting my first real job. I'd also scored a shiny CodeNation
internship for the summer just a few weeks earlier.

Anyways, it's been almost 9 months since then and a lot of things have
happened. I'm still working for MetaBrainz, the cool projects are still cool.
I wasn't able to join CodeNation over the summer because of some really
weird issues with college. I'm not very disappointed because I like the
MetaBrainz work still.

I was a Google Code-In mentor this year, and I was impressed by all these young
kids knowing soo much when I, at their age, didn't know what a database was. It
has been really eye-opening, I tried to help as many people out as possible.

I'm now a Google Summer of Code mentor. I'm mentoring Rashi and comentoring Kartikeya,
both good friends and working on AcousticBrainz and MessyBrainz in the process.
Never would have thought of such a chain of events happening last GSoC,
when I was happy and content just getting into GSoC as a student.
Mentoring is pretty different, but I think we're making
progress and learning things (maybe different things but still things) together
which means that I'm happy with the projects.

Of course, mentoring GSoC is not the only thing in my GSoC responsibilites. I've
been working on ListenBrainz over the last months and we've had releases adding
big features. I worked on creating data dumps for ListenBrainz, that took a lot of
time. I worked on creating a recommendation engine (!!) with Suyash, that was
an awesome project. This summer has been work on importing listens from Spotify
automatically.

That's it for Computer Sciency stuff, I guess.

Other than that, I went to Thailand for a vacation in January! It has to be the
best trip I've ever made. Getting weirdly drunk and talking with a South African
tourist about cricket is a memory I won't forget.

I also went on a trip to the Andamans this summer. The weather tried to play
spoilsport but we had fun. We stayed in a hut with no internet and no phone
connectivity for a week. The beaches on Havelock Island are wonderful, I
would definitely consider them as one of the best.

I've been sitting at home now for almost a month, so I'm itching to go away
somewhere again. College starts in about 20 days, so I'm planning to visit
my brother in Kota, then visit friends in Jaipur and Mumbai and Delhi. I wonder
how tiring 4 cities in 15 days will be, we'll see.

Speaking of college, I'm stuck there for another year while friends who were
basically family are moving away to different corners of the globe. This made
me sad for a while. I'm not sure how time will pass without these people in college.
It won't be the same, that's for sure. I still have really really great people
in my life though, so I'm optimistic. ✨
