---
layout: post
title: What did you do this semester? Travel.
---

_How I learned to stop worrying and love the airport_

I visited Barcelona, Paris and San Francisco in the last month.

It meant spending a major part of my time in airports around the world
and in the air.

It was still really fun!

There was a small landslide that almost cancelled all my plans of
doing cool things and meeting cool people in the MetaBrainz Summit 2018.
But I eventually made it to Barcelona. (phew!)

Barcelona is the best city I have ever visited. I gazed at the beauty of
the Sagrada Familia, gorged great food and great wine at the
Cuines Santa Caterina and drank myself silly at a BBQ on a terrace looking
over the beautiful city.

I also did a bunch of work in Barcelona, before eventually flying to Paris!

Paris had always been the "City of Love" to me. I was excited to actually
see it in real life with my own eyes. The first impression that I got was
that it was unreasonably chilly though. That went away soon as I got accustomed
to the weather and started doing some sightseeing. The Eiffel Tower,
the Louvre Museum, walking alongside the Seine, the Shakespeare and Company
bookstore, Paris definitely is a place to sightsee.

Then, I went home, only to catch a long flight to San Francisco two days later.

The Google Summer of Code Mentor Summit 2018 was the thing that brought me
to San Francisco.

San Francisco is crazy. I was exasperated when I realized that people
actually commute from San Francisco to places like Menlo Park and Mountain
View. Seems like a long trip to do everyday. But you get to work on cool
stuff and get paid to do it, so it might be worth it.

Anyways, I stayed in a crazy good hotel in San Francisco, and met some
really really really awesome people there. It really tripped my sensibilities
to meet so many people working on so much cool stuff in 3 days. It was crazy!

Crazy is really the only word I have to describe the last month of travels.
I feel pretty lucky to have been able to go to so many places while in college.

Anyways, I've become accustomed to airports definitely, with so many layovers
and so much waiting.
