---
layout: post
title: Lessons learned by building things
---

2020 was not a normal year. With the pandemic and the lockdowns, I had a lot of time on my hands. Given that
_every_ other plan I had made was cancelled by the virus, I put some time in on building products from scratch
that people would actually want to use. Overall, I built two things with friends: [soluchan.com](https://soluchan.com), a
website to help people preparing for competitive examinations in India, and [funnel.fyi](https://funnel.fyi), a
tool to help you organize your job search. Here's a few small things I learnt building these products.

### A small feedback loop is essential.

Build it and they will ~~come~~ do absolutely nothing.

It's tempting to take the easy path and spend weeks writing code,
developing new features. However, if you do not have users and do not know for sure that your users want the thing
that you're writing, there is a very high probability that all that code will just sit in a lonely git repository unused.
It's best to write as little code as possible, talk to potential users, get feedback, and then write code with that
feedback in mind. This feedback loop should ideally be as small as possible.

### It's hard to switch context.

Working a full time job and trying to build things is not easy.
Engineering is not a job you can clock out of. A lot of good ideas come to me in the shower
or late in the night when I'm on the bed getting ready to sleep. If you focus on one thing for 40 hours
a week, the side project will languish. It's harder to focus on it, it's harder to innovate with it.
I think that in order to do this really well, it needs to be a full time focus.

### Marketing is essential.

Being an engineer, I've been comfortable with writing code to build things for quite a while.
However, those are not the only skills that are needed if you want to build something that creates
value for others. People will not be aware of what you're building if you do not push it. Pushing
the thing you built in a way that's engaging and fun is not easy or obvious, but it's necessary.
Nothing will happen without it. Things are made or broken by marketing. At some point, you will need
to spend ALL your time on it.
